Relax AI policy (#641)
flathub-infra/documentation: docs/02-for-app-authors/02-requirements.md

### Generative AI policy

> This policy applies to both the application being submitted to Flathub and the
> Flathub submission itself, including the manifest, metadata, patches, build
> scripts, pull request description, and review interactions. For the purpose of
> this policy, "applications" include Flatpak apps, BaseApps, extensions,
> runtimes and any other artifacts that can be produced by flatpak-builder.
> 
> Submitters must disclose any AI-generated code, documentation, or other content
> they know is included in the application. The disclosure must say which parts
> are affected and roughly how much was generated.
> 
> Using AI for research, discussion or debugging does not need to be disclosed if
> no generated code or content was added to the application.
> Minor uses such as grammar or formatting fixes and small amounts of common
> boilerplate are generally acceptable. AI use is substantial when it creates
> core features, determines the main design of the application, or accounts for
> a large part of the project's code or development history.
> 
> The Flathub reviewers may request additional information and will decide
> whether the disclosed use is acceptable.

Reviewer: Just an idea for rewording this:

```suggestion
The use of AI for research, discussion or
debugging does not need to be disclosed if
no generated code or content was added to
the application.

Minor uses, such as grammar or formatting
fixes and small amounts of common boilerplate
are generally acceptable. 

Larger uses, such as generating large parts
of the code or using AI in the software design
process are considered substantial use and are
subject to an case-by-case determination by
the reviewer, who may or may not decide the
use to be acceptable. 

"Vibe-coded" application which were mostly or
fully created by AI will not be accepted. 

The Flathub reviewers may request additional
information and will decide whether the
disclosed use is acceptable.
```

Reviewer 2: With this one every vibecode dev will say "mine is not, i reviewed it" and argue.
it also goes the relaxing from "no AI" to "It's possibly ok we need to check", which may as well be a giant "slop welcome" sign

Reviewer 3: AI can do good contributions if the instructions are clear. I use AI and members of flathub does as well.

It was already discussed and the consensus is that a simple ban to anything that was made with help of AI is unfair.

Reviewer 2: even if it did technically the best contributions ever, completely allowing it is not acceptable to communities.

it was not already discussed. A few people gave their two cents once on a matrix channel.

The current draft is fine to me. Blanket allowing AI is not.
What would be good here is a middle ground, and this is it. Do not push things in a binary yes or no.

### Generative AI policy

This policy applies to both the application being submitted to Flathub and the
Flathub submission itself, including the manifest, metadata, patches, build
scripts, pull request description, and review interactions. For the purpose of
this policy, "applications" include Flatpak apps, BaseApps, extensions,
runtimes and any other artifacts that can be produced by flatpak-builder.

Any use of generative AI tools in the application's code, documentation or
other content must be disclosed in the submission pull request, naming the

> tools used and the extent of assistance. Submitters must fully understand any

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure why the tool is of importance here because it doesn't matter of the submission outcome. The part that will matter is if it's "AI-assisted" or "AI-generated" fully/partially/minor etc.

That too will help little because people can and will lie / have lied and then we have to recheck their codebase etc. regardless anyway to find out.

> AI-assisted change and be able to explain it during review without relying on

Reviewer 4: I've tried asking questions and they just paste it to the LLM and answer it. "Be able to explain" does not work to some extent because the submission codebase in question is foreign to the reviewer so to some extent you have to trust what they say.

> AI. Minor uses such as chat-based debugging, small boilerplate, or grammar and

Reviewer 4: We should define exactly what counts as minor or not, this opens up room for disagreement again between ourselves and with the submitter.

What exactly counts as minor, chat-based debugging and small boilerplate? Grammar and formatting fixes is something I can see clearly not those.

Author: Tried to address that in a fixup commit.

formatting fixes are generally acceptable.

> Applications that are wholly or substantially generated by AI tools will not be

Reviewer 5: You could add language here along the lines of "The determination whether an application or its associated media are substantially generated by AI tools lies entirely within the reviewer's discretion, and their decision is final."

accepted. AI-generated media assets, including icons, screenshots and
promotional imagery, will not be accepted.

#### Submission pull requests

Pull requests, commit messages, PR descriptions, review comments and replies
must not be generated or automated using AI tools or agents.

Please do not request review from any AI tools in the submission PR. Automated
Copilot reviews on GitHub can be disabled by the submitter by going to [Copilot
settings](https://github.com/settings/copilot/coding_agent) and changing
`Repository access` to exclude the `flathub` repository or disabling the global
`Automatic Copilot code review`
[setting](https://github.com/settings/copilot/features).

> #### Exceptions and enforcement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Enforcement
```

The section does not make mention of any exceptions, so it doesn't make sense to mention it in the header?

Where AI assistance is disclosed or detected, reviewers may require the project
to demonstrate a sustained development history before acceptance, typically at

> least six months of active maintenance, multiple releases, or equivalent

Reviewer 4: I would add the more than one or two human contributors criteria as well.
